---
play_number: 1
title: Introduction
---

Numerous case studies from diverse industries have shown that great managers make a significant difference in the performance of teams and organizations. Conversely, the wrong person in a manager role has detrimental effects on employee engagement success, retention, productivity, and overall quality of produced results. As software development today is done in teams, managers are essential to organize the effort of creating good software and manage the people that carry it out. 

The manager's responsibilities are numerous. One of their tasks is to provide a product that will help the company succeed. This is generally measured by a variety of metrics including productivity, performance, profitability, etcetera. The manager is also duty-bound to establish a work environment that encourages staff to be creative and productive. Success here is captured in the employees' perceptions, which studies show determine behavior and impact organizational outcomes. Therefore, understanding what influences engineers' opinions of their managers are critical.

Elite managers positively impact motivation and engagement. To that end, a sufficient level of technical knowledge is necessary but people management skills are critical for great software engineering managers.

Individual contributors have a relatively clear job description. You get to work on time, are assigned certain duties, and are held accountable for getting them done correctly and effectively.

When you take on the role of engineering manager, it will alter significantly - your duties will no longer be as distinct and independent. Your routine will look different, and your responsibilities will dramatically increase. However, you'll also have a greater opportunity to impact your team's culture and collaborate with other teams to achieve major corporate objectives. I've studied numerous papers and read a handful of engineering managers' interviews with only one goal in mind - to help you become an elite engineering manager.

To do that, I will address these common questions and share a conceptual framework that characterizes elite engineering managers. I will also offer contextual examples of how these attributes are put into action and discuss the role of technical knowledge from managers to be elite.

### What's coming next:

1. What is **software engineering management** and what are the **key skills** that are needed to be successful?
2. Characteristics that makes a software engineering manager **"ELITE"** and how can you become one?
3. How do you **successfully lead** a software engineering team?
4. How can you **effectively collaborate with other teams** in order to produce high-quality software products?
5. How do you **hire the best** talent?
6. How can you **maximize your impact** as an elite software engineering?
7. What **tools can you use to manage** your team more effectively?
8. How do you **navigate the ever-changing** software engineering landscape and stay up to date with the latest trends and best practices? 
9. What are **some common challenges** or obstacles you may face as a software engineering manager, and how can you overcome them? 
